# Environment variables

If you have loaded the MetWork profile, you can rely on some environment variables.

Name | Description | Examples
--- | --- | ---
`MFMODULE` | Current loaded metwork module (in uppercase) | `MFEXT`, `MFSERV`
`MFMODULE_LOWERCASE` | Current loaded metwork module (in lowercase) | `mfext`, `mfserv`
`MFMODULE_HOME` | The installation home[^1] of the current loaded metwork module | `/opt/metwork-mfext-0.9`, `/opt/metwork-mfserv-0.8`
`MFMODULE_RUNTIME_HOME` | The runtime home[^2] of the current loaded metwork module | (empty), `/home/mfserv`
`MFMODULE_RUNTIME_USER` | The unix user who runs current loaded metwork module services, this user will create some files in the runtime home[^2] | (empty), `mfserv`
`MFMODULE_VERSION` | The full version number of the current loaded metwork module | `0.9.4`, `integration.ci1036.1949d86`
`MFMODULE_STATUS` | The status of the current loaded metwork module[^3] | `unknown`, `STARTING`, `RUNNING`
`METWORK_PYTHON_MODE` | The major version of python version currently loaded | `3`, `2`
`MFEXT_HOME` | the installation home[^1] of the `mfext` module | `/opt/metwork-mfext-0.9`
`MFEXT_VERSION` | the full version number of the `mfext` module | `0.9.4`, `integration.ci1036.1949d86`
`MFSERV_HOME` | alias of `MFMODULE_HOME` if the current loaded metwork module is `mfserv` | `/opt/metwork-mfserv-0.8`
`MFSERV_VERSION` | alias of `MFMODULE_VERSION` if the current loaded metwork module is `mfserv` | `0.9.4`, `integration.ci1036.1949d86`


If you are in a `plugin_env`, you can also rely on some extra variables:

Name | Description | Examples
--- | --- | ---
`MFSERV_CURRENT_PLUGIN_NAME` | the plugin name | `myplugin`
`MFSERV_CURRENT_PLUGIN_DIR` | the plugin directory fullpath | `/home/mfserv/var/plugins/myplugin`
`MFSERV_CURRENT_PLUGIN_LABEL` | the plugin label (see layerapi2 layer labels) | `plugin_myplugin@mfserv`


FIXME: link to configuration management

[^1]:
    The *installation home* (as opposed to *runtime home*) could be completly read-only. In most cases, files and directory inside *installation home* are owned by root and you don't have any unix rights to create or modify files in it. If you want to create something in *installation home*, you are most likely wrong. See *runtime home* for an alternative.

[^2]:
    The *runtime home* (as opposed to *installation home*) is the place where files and created and modified **after the initial installation (most likely as root user)**. After the installation, this place is empty and files/directories are created here because of runtime usage. Files here should be owned by `${MFMODULE_RUNTIME_USER}` and not by root user.
    This value can be empty for `mfext` module as there is no associated service inside.

[^3]:
    Possible values are:

    - `STARTING` (the module is starting)
    - `STOPPING` (the module is stopping)
    - `RUNNING` (the module is running ok)
    - `STOPPED` (the module is stopped)
    - `ERROR` (the module is running but there are some errors)
    - `unknown` (FIXME: deprecated)
    - `UNKNOWN` (we don't know)

    In case of recent changes, you have to reload your terminal to refresh
    this environment variable. So, in most cases, you should prefer the content
    of the `${MFMODULE_RUNTIME_HOME}/var/status` file which contains the latest value.
